---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts about self study - Focus on the things that don't change"
date:   2018-11-12
categories: thoughts market education
---

***"The Only Thing That Is Constant Is Change"*** Heraclitus

Software industry change at an exponential rate, and the mainstream adoption of AI won't slow it down. (I know I am not teaching anything here but wait ^^)

Web developers are familiar with the so called "JS fatigue", where you spend a huge amount of time to master the new
hot framework/technology. And then a new one appears, and you have to throw everything away every 6 months...

"You've learned AngularJS, great, but now we use Angular2... Ooops sorry again now it's VueJs ^^ but for this other project we use ReactJs, just because..."

So, are we condemned to the ***"disposable knowledge"?***

Maybe not, if you did't just skimmed the surface or spent hours to learn the API by heart, but rather tried to understand the concept on which it sits on.

If you do a lot of self-study, you probably often ask yourself, how can I learn the next skill that will be in demand. 
But it's actually the wrong question. Jeff Bezos spotted the right question for his own business, ***"what's not going to change?"***

What are the skills that will remains no matter the framework, no matter the language, that's the good question. Will problem solving be a skill in demand in the future? Will people skill be useless? Will mathematics be something of the past?...

We should see our skills map like an investment portfolio and don't put all your eggs in one basket:

- Will change very soon (tomorrow?): the API of your actual framework v1.xy
- Will change soon: the new hot framework/language you have to master
- Will probably change: the architectural concept on which is based your framework
- Won't change anytime soon (but who knows): Discrete mathematics, algorithm analysis, computer architecture, language interpretation process...

    
To Conclude:

Even if it's great fun to learn and try out the new hot technology, try to see beyond, look inside the code, look for patterns that you know and the way it implements them etc... Even try to replicate a small version of it.
Sometimes, grab a good old CS classic book and study it deeply, you will be surprise how old concepts are what's make the DNA of your new super amazing framework.